---
layout: person
title: Shawn McGorry
thumbnail: ''
job_title: President & Chief Executive Officer
email: ''
linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/shawn-mcgorry-9b3b616/
half_image: "/uploads/McGorry.jpg"

---
Shawn McGorry serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Expedient and has more than 35 years of experience in the Telecommunications and Information Technology industries. Under Shawn’s leadership, Expedient successfully transitioned and grew, from a boutique, local Internet Service Provider (ISP) with one colocation facility, to a super-regional cloud computing and data center infrastructure as a service provider with 11 data centers in 7 different cities. He orchestrated the sale of Expedient to the current ownership group in 2005, which provided the capital support necessary to deliver exponential business growth. Today, Expedient is recognized as one of the nation’s top providers of Infrastructure as Service (IaaS) and Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) in the data center and cloud hosting space. Before joining Expedient in December of 2003, he spent 7 years as Vice President and COO of Stargate.net, Inc. Shawn helped build Stargate from startup phase to one of the nation’s Top 20 Commercial Internet Service Providers in less than 5 years. Stargate earned dozens of industry accolades, including recognition as the nation’s fastest growing Inner City Company, by INC Magazine. Prior to entering the Internet industry, Shawn spent 16 years with TeleCommunications Inc. (TCI), which became AT&T Broadband in 1999 and then sold to Comcast Communications in 2002. During his Cable industry tenure, Shawn held many positions including General Manager for TCI of Western Pennsylvania, TCI’s largest single operating unit, and at that time, the nation’s largest consolidated cable television system. In 1996, he was honored as “System Operator of the Year,” by the Pennsylvania Cable and Telecommunications Association. Shawn is a 1980 Graduate of Clarion State University with a B.S. in Business Marketing/Management. He also earned an MBA from the Katz Graduate School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh with an emphasis on Finance.