---
title: 'EXPEDIENT Announces Four (4) more Data Center Expansion Projects'
date: Mon, 03 Jun 2013 19:11:57 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

Expedient, a leading provider of colocation, cloud computing, managed hosting and connectivity services, announced another round of data center footprint expansion, adding capacity in four (4) of their six (6) core markets.  These investments will bring Expedient’s data center production environment to a total of 220,000 square feet. The total budget for the four new projects is more than $17 million dollars. “We are very fortunate to have an enthusiastic corporate sponsor who understands the significant capital commitment required to meet the ever increasing capacity and reliability demands of our customers. We’ve conducted significant facility expansions, as well as significant investments in hardware and software to support our managed hosting and cloud platforms, in every one of our core markets at some point in the last three years,” stated Shawn McGorry, Expedient President and COO.   Expedient’s nine (9) data centers, located in Pittsburgh (2), Cleveland (2), Columbus, Baltimore (2), Boston and Indianapolis, operate as one (1), geographically-diverse production environment, seamlessly connected by a fully redundant, 10Gb Fiber network. Here is a brief summary of the expansion activity that is underway in each market.

*   **Baltimore, MD** Expedient is adding a second data center location, as previously announced, to augment their current facilities at Tide Point, located on Under Armour’s Baltimore campus. The Expedient Tide Point facility just opened its last expansion in January 2012.  The new data center in Owings Mills, a suburb of Baltimore, will effectively double the footprint for Expedient in the Baltimore market and at the same time, it will make Expedient the region’s only data center provider capable of offering both in-market geographic diversity and seamless out-of-market, off-site hosting alternatives. The new Owings Mills facility was recently occupied as a private-use data center, by a large, locally-based financial institution. Prior to the Grand Opening, currently slated for October 2013, Expedient will be investing several million dollars to upgrade the security, power and HVAC infrastructure to meet its rigid service standards.  In addition, this week Expedient made a significant investment in their initial Baltimore data center at Tide Point with the installation of a fourth generator, this one being a new redundant 1MW – 2,200 gallon diesel generator to support existing customers.

*   **Pittsburgh, PA** Expedient’s Pittsburgh Data Center II, located in the Allegheny Center Mall (ACM) complex, is adding approximately 8,000 square feet of production ready compute space to their existing data center, an increase of 80% over the current footprint.   The combination of the ACM Data Center and Expedient’s original data center in the Greentree area, gives the firm over 30,000 square feet of raised floor in Pittsburgh and furthers expands its in-market geographic diversity. A multi-million dollar project involving the addition of new generator capacity, HVAC systems and raised floor is already underway and the new space is expected to be available for customer use by November 2013.

*   **Indianapolis, IN** Expedient is expected to complete an infrastructure upgrade, which has been underway since January, by the end of August 2013. This investment in their Carmel facility (referred to as “Phase I”) will increase back up power and cooling capacities that serve existing customers in their current facility.  Immediately upon completion of Phase I, Expedient will begin a capacity expansion, Phase II, which will add approximately 6,000 square feet of new, production ready, raised floor computing space, immediately adjacent to the existing data center. Upon completion of Phase II, projected for Q2-2014, the total raised floor footprint at the company’s Carmel facility will exceed 25,000 square feet. The combined Phase I and Phase II investments will exceed $10 Million Dollars.

*   **Columbus, OH** Columbus is Expedient’s newest market, having opened its first local data center in Upper Arlington, in January of 2011. Expedient is now initiating a “Phase II” expansion at the same location. The Phase II build out will increase on site capacity by approximately 25% and will complete their build out plans for the initial Upper Arlington site. Expedient is also exploring several options for additional expansion in Columbus at a second location.  Work on Phase II is scheduled to begin mid-summer, with completion scheduled by December 2013. 

**More** **about Expedient** In addition to traditional data center colocation services, Expedient is known for offering a wide range of managed services such as virtualization, cloud computing, remote backups, management of equipment, storage area networks and more.  All of Expedient’s Data Centers employ fully redundant, end to end dual (A-B) power feeds, back-up power systems, generators and n+1 HVAC systems. Each Data Center facility is staffed 24\*7\*365 with live, local technical supports, is SSAE18, SOCI and SOCII audited and will support Customer compliance needs for PCI-DSS, HIPAA and other industry/regulatory standards. The company was built through series of acquisitions in the early to mid-2000 timeframe, with all of its markets offering experienced Data Center Colocation Services for 10 years or more. Expedient’s legal name is Continental Broadband LLC, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Landmark Media Enterprises, LLC, a firm with over eighty (80) years of experience operating media and technology interests. For additional information on Expedient services, contact Bryan Smith at (614) 246-0111. [www.expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com/) Contact Bryan Smith [Bryan.Smith@expedient.com](mailto:Bryan.Smith@expedient.com)