---
title: 'EXPEDIENT (formerly DataPoint) Announces Second Data Center Opening'
date: Tue, 28 May 2013 19:14:37 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

(Baltimore, Maryland) May 28, 2013, Expedient, Baltimore’s leading provider of Data Center Colocation and Managed Hosting Services announced today they are opening another new data center in the region, this one in Owings Mills, MD.  The addition of the Owings Mills facility comes on the heels of last year’s major expansion at its TidePoint Data Center, located on Under Armour’s Baltimore City campus. A grand opening for the last expansion was held on January 12th, 2012. Company officials cite brisk market response at the recently opened TidePoint facility and a continually strengthening partnership with the Baltimore technology community as the primary drivers for its latest investment.

The new Data Center in Owings Mills will effectively double the footprint for Expedient in the Baltimore market and at the same time, it will make Expedient the region’s only Data Center provider capable of offering both in-market geographic diversity and out-of-market, off-site hosting alternatives. This latest addition brings Expedient’s data center production capacity to a total of 220,000 square feet. “The new location gives us greater flexibility in meeting customer preferences. Some businesses like to have their critical systems hosted closer to their downtown offices for convenience and others prefer to be further away from the central business district for diversification purposes”; said Curtis DePass, Expedient’s Regional Vice President.  “This Data Center will be the ninth (9th) Data Center added to our network of seamlessly connected facilities, over a fully redundant, 10Gb Fiber network”; added DePass.  Expedient’s other data centers are located in Pittsburgh (2), Cleveland (2), Columbus, Baltimore, Boston and Indianapolis.  The company is in plans to add Data Centers numbers ten (10) and eleven (11) within the next six (6) to twelve (12) months. “We are very fortunate to have an enthusiastic corporate sponsor who understands the significant capital commitment required to meet the constantly increasing capacity and reliability demands of our customers. We’ve conducted significant facility expansions in every one of our core markets at some point in the last three years,” stated Shawn McGorry, Expedient President and COO.

The new Owings Mills facility was recently occupied as a private-use Data Center, by a large, locally-based financial institution. Prior to the Grand Opening, currently slated for October 2013, Expedient will be investing several Million dollars to upgrade the security, power and HVAC infrastructure to meet its rigid service standards, including full, end to end redundancy on every critical element of the facility infrastructure. The “ground-up” build valuation for a comparable Data Center would exceed $10 Million dollars. The company also invested more than $6 Million dollars for the upgrades and expansions of the TidePoint facility in the last two years. “Baltimore is a core market for our business” said McGorry. “Thanks to the support of our customers and the hard work of our valued employees, we are delighted to expand our commitment to the region with these recent investments. We continue to strive to be the market leader and trusted advisor for outsourced IT infrastructure and cloud computing solutions.”

Features of the new, Owings Mills Data Center include 9,000 square feet of raised floor space, dual power feeds, redundant 750 kVa Liebert UPS systems, 320 tons of cooling, two Caterpillar diesel generators with 3MW capacity and completely diverse telecom entrances. Like all of Expedient’s Data Centers, the facility will be staffed 24x7x365 with live, local technical support, it will meet SSAE18, SOC I and SOCII audit requirements and will support our customer’s needs to meet PCI-DSS, HIPAA and other industry/regulatory standards.  The company expects to add about ten (10) Technical Support and IT Engineer type positions in the near term, co-incident with the new facility opening.  

**More** **about Expedient**

In addition to traditional data center colocation services, Expedient is known for offering a wide range of managed services such as virtualization, cloud computing, remote backups, management of equipment, storage area networks and more.  The company was built through series of acquisitions in the early to mid-2000 timeframe, with all of its markets offering experienced Data Center Colocation Services for 10 years or more. Expedient’s legal name is Continental Broadband LLC, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Landmark Media Enterprises, LLC, a firm with over eighty (80) years of experience operating media and technology interests. For additional information on Expedient services, contact Curtis DePass at 410-209-6730. [www.expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com/)

Contact

Curtis DePass [Curtis.depass@expedient.com](mailto:Curtis.depass@expedient.com)