---
title: 'Expedient Announces New Regional Vice President to Drive Growth for Boston Market'
date: Tue, 09 Sep 2014 13:29:21 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

BOSTON, MA, September 9, 2014 – Expedient, a National leader in Data Centers, Managed Services and Cloud Computing Services, announced today the appointment of Shawn Allaway to the position of Regional Vice President for the Boston market. In his new role, Allaway will help drive Expedient’s position as a leader in Data Center and Cloud services. In addition, he will seek to expand Expedient’s regional team, as well as developing strong partnerships with local technology thought leaders. For the five (5) years prior to joining Expedient, Allaway was President of ConverterTechnology,Inc., a global provider of enterprise data migration software, where he oversaw a company turnaround which included double-digit growth, national and international market expansion and new product initiatives. He expanded their customer portfolio beyond Fortune 1000 companies to include small and medium sized businesses.  Previous to ConverterTechnology, he was Vice President at NWN Corporation, a value added reseller and systems integrator as a Microsoft Gold, Cisco Gold and HP Platinum partner. Under his direction, NWN increased revenue by more than 400 percent in two years. Earlier, Allaway also worked with Surebridge during its assimilation to Navisite and ultimately its spin off into Navint.  Allaway has been based in the Boston area his entire career, and has strong ties to the community, especially the consistently expanding technology sector. “Shawn has an impressive track record of growing sales, developing teams and providing excellence customer service. We are looking for him to spur organic growth, strategic market initiatives and new partnerships in the greater Boston area,” said Shawn McGorry, COO of Expedient, to whom Allaway will report. “As a result of recent traction in the market, especially for our Cloud based, Managed Services platforms, we see the Boston area with high growth potential and we are excited to have Shawn on board and we are confident that he will help establish Expedient as the local market leader for Infrastructure as a Service.” **About Expedient** In addition to traditional data center colocation services, Expedient is known for offering a wide range of managed services such as virtualization, cloud computing, remote backups, management of equipment, storage area networks and more.  Expedient operates a total of ten (10) Data Centers in six (6) cities; Boston (1), Baltimore (2), Pittsburgh (2), Cleveland (2), Columbus (2) and Indianapolis (1). All facilities are seamlessly connected by its fully redundant fiber optic ring and Expedient’s Boston based Data Center, located at 1 Cabot Road in Medford, is the largest, single footprint facility at 37,000 square feet.  In addition, over $5.5 million dollars has been invested to upgrade and expand our full suite of managed services, as well as the power and cooling capacity of the Boston Data Center in order to better serve existing customers and accommodate new customer growth. Expedient was built through series of acquisitions in the early to mid-2000 timeframe, with all of its markets offering experienced Data Center Colocation Services for 10 years or more. Expedient’s legal name is Continental Broadband LLC, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Landmark Media Enterprises, LLC, a private firm with over one hundred years (100) years of experience operating media and technology interests. Expedient's approach complements a variety of industry and government compliance requirements including SOX, PCI DSS and HIPAA, supported by third-party SOC attestation. For additional information visit www.expedient.com.