---
title: 'Expedient Data Centers Announces Expansion Into Memphis, Tennessee'
date: Fri, 31 Oct 2014 12:54:26 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

(Memphis, Tennessee) October 31, 2014: Expedient Data Centers, a leading provider of cloud computing, colocation, disaster recovery, managed services and connectivity, announced today they will be expanding into the Memphis market. Preparations are underway to make their latest, state-of-the-art data center ready for customers by July 1, 2015. [The new facility](/memphis/ "Memphis"), located at 3180 Players Ln. Memphis, TN will be their first data center in Tennessee and the eleventh facility that Expedient operates across seven markets. Expedient serves a mix of local and national companies, who choose to host their critical business computing systems and related applications in secure, purpose built redundant facilities. “We are excited about serving local Memphis customers with great solutions and joining the business community. We believe the Memphis market will be a great complement to our existing network of interconnected data centers; it will bring an additional geographically diverse option for our current client base, as well as a local market solution for the attractive and growing Memphis commercial sector”, explained Shawn McGorry, Expedient President & COO. Expedient currently operates ten (10) data centers in six (6) markets; Boston, Baltimore (2), Cleveland (2), Columbus (2), Indianapolis and Pittsburgh (2). “When we evaluate market expansion opportunities, we certainly look for places where we can become the trusted advisor for IT infrastructure and cloud computing solutions. After considerable due diligence, we are convinced that by providing Memphis customers with an excellent experience, we can establish Expedient as the leading colocation and cloud computing provider in the market. We look forward to adding Memphis to our network of regionally diverse data centers, all offering a full host of managed services and connectivity as part of our growing product suite”, added McGorry. The facility in [Memphis](/memphis/ "Memphis") is located close to the TPC Southwind Golf Course and FedEx Headquarters and was recently used as an internal data center by the previous corporate owners. Expedient will invest six million dollars in startup costs and improvements to the facility in order to meet its standards and the requirements of its customers. Upon completion, the new data center will initially include approximately 7,500 sq. ft. of raised floor computing space and will be able to support the company’s growth for years to come, with a total of 35,000 sq. ft. available in the building. The company has chosen and will soon name its Memphis senior executive. Expedient will be hiring a full onsite staff of engineers and sales members immediately, and expects to hire approximately twenty (20) technology professionals over the first two (2) years. The data center will feature top tier features including: dual commercial power feeds, two (2) 1,250 kVA generators, 450 tons of cooling, four (4) 338kVa Liebert UPS, multi-carrier telecommunications infrastructure, multiple levels of security, and a 24x7x365 staffed Operations Support Center (OSC). The data center will meet several industry certifications and standards, including SSAE18, SOC I, II & III reports on compliance (an Audit of Controls and Procedures), PCI-DSS (a financial certification for secure processing of credit card information) and HIPAA Business Associate requirements (a federally regulated Business Associate must comply with a rigid set of Rules in order to protect the privacy and security of protected health information). Expedient has enjoyed growth and new market expansion in recent years. In the last year alone, the company invested twenty-two million dollars in data center expansion for its ten existing data centers. Furthermore, growth in the Columbus market, which Expedient entered just three (3) years ago, has resulted in the groundbreaking for its 2nd in market data center earlier this month. For additional information on the new Expedient data center or Expedient services, contact Bryan Smith ([bryan.smith@expedient.com](mailto:bryan.smith@expedient.com)) or visit [www.expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com) .