---
title: 'Expedient Completes Multi Million Dollar Expansion in Pittsburgh and Announces Three More'
date: Tue, 28 Jan 2014 20:06:09 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

_Firm Nearly Doubles the Size of Their Second Pittsburgh Data Center, Announces Three Other Data Center Expansions Projects for 2014_ Expedient, a leading provider of colocation, cloud computing, managed hosting and internet related connectivity services, has completed an expansion project, which adds more than 7,000 square feet of high capacity, raised-floor compute-space to their Pittsburgh data center at Allegheny Center Mall (ACM), which was first opened in September of 2008. The additional 7,000 square feet of production space, expands the current ACM data center footprint to more than 17,000 square feet.  The company also utilizes an additional 20,000 square feet for its back up power and HVAC infrastructure, Operations Support Center and central offices at Allegheny Center.  Including its original data center in Greentree, Expedient Data Centers now occupy more than 60,000 square feet of locally leased real estate in Pittsburgh. The company invested approximately $3 Million dollars in this most recent project, which included the installation of a new, 2.2KW generator system.  The expansion was completed in six months and addresses ongoing demand for private cloud and colocation services. With the completion of this expansion, customers of the facility realize the security and full redundancy afforded by dual commercial power feeds, two (2) 2,2000KW Caterpillar generators, four (4) UPS systems, 500 tons of cooling, diverse telecommunications fiber infrastructure, multi-tiered security systems, FM-200 fire suppression and VESDA fire detection system with a fully staffed 24x7 Operations Support Center (OSC).  The data center also houses Expedient’s proven managed services platforms, including their “Generation 5”- virtualization platform, cloud computing, remote and on-site backups, management of equipment, storage area networks, disaster recovery and more. In addition to the two (2) Pittsburgh facilities, Expedient has seven (7) other data centers throughout the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions which are interconnected via a 10Gbps fiber network. The company’s 9th Data Center, in Owings Mills, Maryland, was brought on line in November of 2013 and was Expedient’s 2nd facility in the Baltimore area. “Now that our Pittsburgh and Baltimore expansions are complete, we are pleased to announce three additional data center expansions for 2014.” said Shawn McGorry, President of Expedient. A summary of Expedient’s 2014 expansion plans include;

*   Cleveland – Expedient has kicked-off the engineering study and purchase of long lead time items to build their third (3rd) data center, which will add 10,000 square feet of production ready, raised floor space. This facility will be located in the NEO Park campus where their other two Cleveland data centers already reside. The project investment is estimated to be in excess of $7Million dollars and slated for completion by end of year 2014.
*   Columbus – The engineering is underway for a second 20,000 square foot data center in the Columbus market which is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2014. An expansion was just completed in December 2013, at Expedient’s original Columbus data center that will provide sufficient inventory during the construction of the new facility. This investment is also estimated to be approximately $7Million dollars and slated for completion by end of year 2014.

*   Indianapolis - The expansion of over 6,000 square feet of new, production ready, raised floor computing space, immediately adjacent to the existing data center is underway and expected to be complete by mid-year. Upon completion of this expansion, the total raised floor footprint at the company’s Carmel facility will exceed 25,000 square feet.  This Indianapolis expansion comes on the heels of the multi-million dollar cooling and electrical upgrades that took place in 2013. Upon completion of this expansion, the company will have invested more than $11 Million dollars at the Indianapolis facility over the course of 18 months.

These investments will bring Expedient’s total data center capacity to over 250,000 square feet. “Our solutions are unique in that we effectively offer customers one (1) giant data center, at 9, soon to be 11 different sites, which are seamlessly connected by a fully redundant 10Gig fiber ring. This is especially appealing to clients seeking geographic diversity to help meet their security and disaster requirements” added McGorry. **About Expedient** Expedient is part of a network of nine nationwide data centers, and offers a wide range of [managed services](https://www.expedient.com/managed-services/) such as virtualization, cloud computing, remote backups, management of equipment, storage area networks, disaster recovery and more. These proven managed services combined with reliable and redundant SSAE-18 compliant data centers enables Expedient to deliver premier colocation, network and managed services to enterprise, commercial, education and government entities.  To learn more about Expedient please log on to [www.expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com/)   Contact: Bryan Smith [Bryan.smith@expedient.com](mailto:Bryan.smith@expedient.com) 614-246-0111