---
title: 'Expedient Push Button DR 2.0 Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) Solution Uses VMware NSX Network Virtualization Platform to Simplify DR'
date: Tue, 30 Aug 2016 13:27:35 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

#### _Company Demonstrates Capability to Seamlessly Move All Networking Components in Featured Session at VMworld 2016_

Las Vegas, NV and Pittsburgh, PA (August 30, 2016)—The complexity of maintaining real-time replication for all enterprise workload configurations is one of the most significant challenges facing information technology professionals responsible for establishing and maintaining disaster recovery and business continuity strategies. In particular, the components of networking present a specific challenge in maintaining service resiliency across public networks. Some Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) solutions rely upon domain name system (DNS) failover to facilitate network continuity in the event of a disaster declaration. Unfortunately, that solution delivers an inconsistent recovery time and can negatively impact some users, who may lose service for an extended period of time. Expedient now delivers public and private DRaaS cloud solutions using the VMware NSX® network virtualization platform. This use case creates a hybrid network mesh that— when combined with dynamic routing protocols—allows for the re-use of public internet protocol (IP) subnets in an alternative geographic location after a disaster is declared. “With this solution, public IP addresses and all virtual network appliances including firewalls, load balancers and VPN endpoints move _with_ their connected computing workloads at the press of a button in our self-service support portal,” explained John White, vice president, Product Strategy, Expedient. “Any user possessing the privilege to do so could initiate automatic failover in one click.” The ability to replicate all components of IT infrastructure significantly reduces recovery time objectives (RTO) from hours to minutes. Commenting on the process of moving critical workloads to the Expedient DRaaS solution, Tom Juncewicz, director of Information Technology at Stanley Steemer remarked, “Working with Expedient to implement Push Button DR has been a pleasure. Their handling of our migration was absolutely magical! In my career, I’ve never seen such a smooth transition of such a complex environment.” In its presentation at VMworld® 2016, Expedient will demonstrate this functionality and discussed the NSX network virtualization use case with more than three hundred interested participants. “VMware is pleased to work with Expedient on software that allows them to deliver Push Button DR 2.0—a solution that delivers application continuity to improve business outcomes for organizations,” said  Geoff Waters, vice president, Service Provider Channel, VMware.” “Watching a demonstration of this capability in production was very impressive,” remarked Carl Brooks, analyst, Service Providers, 451 Research. “Expedient is moving network-based services in the direction they need to go with the VMware NSX platform.” A recording of the demonstration is available at [https://go.expedient.com/PushButtonDR](https://go.expedient.com/PushButtonDR). **About Expedient** Expedient is a cloud and data center infrastructure as a service (IaaS) provider with local operations in Pittsburgh, PA; Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Cleveland, OH; Columbus, OH; Indianapolis, IN and Memphis, TN. Converged solutions enable clients to focus on strategic business innovation, while the Expedient team handles operation of the information technology needed to support it. Learn more at expedient.com.   VMware, NSX and VMworld are registered trademarks or trademarks of VMware, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other jurisdictions. All other marks and names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies.