---
title: 'Expedient Hires New Director of Market Strategy in Pittsburgh'
date: Thu, 21 Jan 2016 14:30:57 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

_Pittsburgh, Jan. 21, 2016_ - Expedient, a leading provider of data center colocation, cloud computing and managed hosting services, hires David Birks as director of market strategy for their Pittsburgh market. Birks has 29 years of experience in the greater Western PA information technology industry with a proven track record for establishing long-term, successful client relationships. In his previous position as director of sales at Compu-Fix, a Pittsburgh-based IT support services company, Birks was instrumental in tripling the company’s revenue during his 25-year tenure. “Having worked with Expedient as one of their vendors since 1999, I have seen the responsible growth and the commitment to excellence across all phases of the organization,” Birks says. “It was this enterprisewide approach, strong, stable leadership and effusive customer loyalty that I found so compelling.” As the director of market strategy for Expedient, Birks will be responsible for spearheading new partnerships and community involvement through the greater Pittsburgh area and beyond. “We know David is uniquely qualified for this new position and we are happy to have him on board,” says David Saliba, regional vice president of Expedient Pittsburgh. “His longstanding career and reputation in the IT community will be a benefit to the company and our customers.” In addition to Birks’ new role, Devon Cole also moved into a new position with Expedient, now serving as the regional account manager working with the current customer base. Cole previously served as a project manager with the service delivery team.

#### **About Expedient**

In addition to traditional data center colocation services (11 data centers in 7 cities), Expedient is known for offering a wide range of managed services, such as virtualization, cloud computing, remote backups, management of equipment, storage area networks and more. The company was built through a series of acquisitions in the early to mid-2000s timeframe, with all of its markets offering experienced data center colocation services for 10 years or more. Expedient’s legal name is Continental Broadband LLC, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Landmark Media Enterprises LLC, a private firm whose predecessor companies bring more than 100 years of experience operating media and technology interests. Learn more at [www.expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com).