---
title: 'TIC Gums Uses Expedient’s On-Site Private Cloud to Ensure Food Quality and Consistency for the Nation’s Leading Consumer Packaged Goods Companies'
date: Mon, 14 Aug 2017 13:45:40 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

Pittsburgh, PA – 14 August 2017 – Expedient, a cloud computing and data center infrastructure as a service (IaaS) provider, today announced that its On-Site Private Cloud with Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) has been selected by TIC Gums to enable total workload mobility with a true hybrid cloud infrastructure. TIC Gums’ advanced food texture and stabilization solutions are critical differentiators for food and beverage manufacturers; their formulations improve appearance, stability, and emulsification properties for the nation’s leading CPG companies. TIC Gums is using Expedient’s On-Site Private Cloud with Disaster Recovery as a Service to meet several business objectives, including the modernization and migration of its IT infrastructure and the creation and implementation of a disaster recovery plan and solution. By placing an Expedient private cloud point of delivery (POD) on-site at TIC Gums’ premises, TIC Gums is able to ensure continuous business operations through a “lift and shift” phased workload migration approach. “Expedient’s On-Site Private Cloud with Disaster Recovery as a Service allows us to stay focused on the critical business projects that we know will be coming, including upgrading our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, integrating processes with our new ownership group, and enhancing other initiatives that will help us keep our competitive edge,” said Brian Hensley, TIC Gums’ Director of IT. For the complete TIC Gums On-Site Private Cloud success story, [read our case study](https://www.expedient.com/tic-gums-onsite-private-cloud/). For more information about Expedient’s public, private, and hybrid cloud solutions and industry-leading managed services, visit [www.expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com).   **About Expedient** Expedient is a cloud and data center infrastructure as a service (IaaS) provider with local operations in Pittsburgh, PA; Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Cleveland, OH; Columbus, OH; Indianapolis, IN and Memphis, TN. Ranked as one of the Top 10 managed services providers worldwide on the 2017 MSPMentor 501 list, Expedient’s converged solutions enable clients to focus on strategic business innovation, while the Expedient team handles operation of the information technology needed to support it. Expedient data centers are compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) as well as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). Service Organization Control (SOC) reports are published annually for all locations. Learn more at [expedient.com](https://www.expedient.com/).