---
title: 'Expedient to Host Webinar with 451 Research'
date: Thu, 01 Aug 2019 14:34:38 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

_Trends in cloud service delivery and enterprise cloud adoption will be discussed_ **Pittsburgh, PA – 24 June 2019 –** Expedient, a managed cloud and data center infrastructure as a service provider, today announced that it will host a webinar titled **“Hyperscale or Enterprise – Which Cloud is Best for your Business?”** on **Thursday, July 18, 2019 at 12 pm EDT**. During the live webinar event, [John White](https://www.linkedin.com/in/iamjohn/), Expedient’s Chief Innovation Officer, and [Carl Brooks](https://451research.com/analyst-team/analyst/carl+brooks), a Cloud Transformation Analyst from 451 Research, will discuss why hosted enterprise cloud solutions – instead of global hyperscale cloud solutions – are often better at addressing the IT and operational challenges faced by established businesses. “An application-first mindset to cloud workload placement is gaining traction as enterprises continue to hone their approaches to cloud selection and adoption,” White explained. “Performance predictability, cost control, security concerns, and the desire for centralized oversight of cloud resources are all drivers of this trend. In this webinar, Carl and I will discuss the various challenges enterprises encounter during cloud transformation how hosted enterprise cloud solutions are purpose-built to address these challenges.” In support of this discussion, Brooks will present 451’s latest research on cloud transformation and provide insight into what the data means for enterprises. White will present the findings from a recent cloud benchmark report that gauged the performance and price-to-performance ratio of popular hyperscale clouds versus hosted enterprise clouds. Registration for this live webinar event is now open<link to registration landing page>. All registrants will receive [a free copy of the benchmark report](https://www.expedient.com/2019-cloud-spectator-report/) as well as a recording of the webinar. **About Expedient** Expedient helps companies transform their IT operations through award-winning cloud solutions and managed services including disaster recovery, security and compliance, and more. Named VMware’s Americas Cloud Partner of the Year and acknowledged in Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for Disaster Recovery as a Service, Expedient’s solutions and services ease clients’ transition to the cloud, enabling them to focus on strategic business innovation while the Expedient team handles operation of the information technology needed to support it. In addition to its headquarters and data centers in Pittsburgh, PA, Expedient operates data center facilities in six additional cities, including Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Cleveland, OH; Columbus, OH; Indianapolis, IN and Memphis, TN. The company’s hybrid cloud infrastructure is deployed wherever clients need it worldwide. Expedient data centers are compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) as well as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). Service Organization Control (SOC) reports are published annually for all locations. Learn more at [expedient.com](http://www.expedient.com/). **About 451 Research** 451 Research is a leading information technology research and advisory company focusing on technology innovation and market disruption. More than 100 analysts and consultants provide essential insight to more than 1,000 client organizations globally through a combination of syndicated research and data, advisory and go-to-market services, and live events. Learn more at [451research.com](https://451research.com/).  **CONTACT:** Becky Mancuso Director of Marketing Expedient (412) 316-7805 becky.mancuso@expedient.com