---
title: 'Expedient Expanding in Pittsburgh'
date: Wed, 27 Feb 2019 17:28:38 +0000
download: ''
draft: false
---

Pittsburgh, PA – 27 February 2019 – Expedient, a cloud computing and data center infrastructure as a service (IaaS) provider, today announced an expansion of its Pittsburgh headquarters in the city’s newest technology hub, Nova Place. With the expansion, which increases office space by 40%, Expedient will comprise the entire sixth floor of Nova Tower 1, overlooking Downtown Pittsburgh. Formerly Allegheny Center Mall, Nova Place has undergone significant renovation in recent years, and is now home to many technology-related organizations. The office space expansion will support Expedient’s hiring plans for 2019. The headquarters office space is in addition to its two data centers in the area; one also in Nova Place, and another in Green Tree. Combined, the facilities give Expedient more than 70,000 square feet of operating space in the Pittsburgh region. The office expansion comes on the heels of Expedient’s $14.5 million, 10,000-square-foot expansion of its Nova Place data center, which was celebrated with an open house and a proclamation of “Expedient Day in Pittsburgh” in January 2018.     **About Expedient** Expedient helps companies transform their IT operations through award-winning cloud and infrastructure solutions and managed services including disaster recovery, security and compliance, and more.Acknowledged in Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for Disaster Recovery as a Service and ranked as one of the Top 10 managed services providers worldwide on the Channel Futures MSP 501 list, Expedient’s converged solutions enable clients to focus on strategic business innovation, while the Expedient team handles operation of the information technology needed to support it.In addition to its headquarters and two data centers inPittsburgh, PA, Expedient operates data centers in six additional cities, including Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Cleveland, OH; Columbus, OH; Indianapolis, IN and Memphis, TN. Expedient data centers are compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) as well as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). Service Organization Control (SOC) reports are published annually for all locations. Learn more at [expedient.com](http://www.expedient.com/).